###############
### OBJECTS ###
###############

### CLASSES ###

- Using classes as a construct to help us build objects:
    + class Music{} — creates a new mold for the class of Music, multiple objects anticipated to fill those curly braces (using keyword ‘class’).
    + var pop = new Music() — adds a Pop object as a new object into the class Music (using keyword ‘new’).
    + constructor(album, artist, year){} — creates the template, defines arguments necessary to build objects within this class (using keyword ‘constructor’).
    + this.album = album; — crucial syntax in building and referencing components of your class. Allows for long term storage and updates (using keyword ‘this.’). 

1- Always start by defining your variable, your object, your class — whatever you are filling with results.
2- Use keywords to point to your code and manipulate context

## Class Reference
class Music {} — creates a new mold for the class of Music, multiple objects anticipated to fill those curly braces
var pop = new Music () — adds a Pop object as a new object into the class Music. 


### NESTING ###

## Accessing Nested Objects in JSON
- You can use a couple of method to pull information back off of your created object
- Dot Notation vs Bracket Notation
  For example…

    var myStorage = {
        "car": {
            "inside": {
            "glove box": "maps",
            "passenger seat": "crumbs"
            },
            "outside": {
            "trunk": "jack"
            }
        }
    };
    
    var whatsOutside = myStorage.car.outside;
    var gloveBoxContents = myStorage.car.inside["glove box”];

- You can also use dot notation to modify objects/ add new keys and vars to it
  For example...
    car.outside.frunk = "charging cord";
    
- You can use bracket notation to update objects/ work with objects that use numerical keys
  For example...
    var chameleon = {
        color: 'red',
        texture: 'scaly',
        size: 'medium'
    };

    function changeProp(propName, newValue) {
        chameleon[propName] = newValue;
    };

    changeProp('color', 'fuscia'); <- would update the color item in chameleon to 'fuscia'

## Nesting functions in an Object
- You can apply a function as a property on an object
  For example...
    var myCar = {
        miles: 20000,
        drive: function() {
            myCar.miles++;
        }
    };

    myCar.drive(100); <- would add 100 miles to myCar's miles item

- Remember: methods on an object cannot access properties on themselves.
    + Instead, add a function beyond the object declaration that refers back to the property using dot notation
    + Scope is everything

## Creating with Functionl Objects
- Allows for the same output when creating data, same properties are assigned (using key)
  For example...
    function dogMaker(name, color) {
        return {
            name: name,
            color: color
        }
    };

    var myDog = dogMaker('Otis', 'black'); <- creates a dog named Otis that is black under 'myDog'
    var TinasDog = dogMaker('Cane', 'grey'); <- creates a dog named Cane that is grey under 'TinasDog'
