## Clients: 
- Handle user interaction
- Present data from server
- Request data from server
- Request data from 3rd party APIs 

## Servers:
- Listen for and process requests
- Send front-end files to client
- Mediate between client and database 

## URLs:
- Uniform Resource Locator: used to uniquely identify a resource over the web. 
- protocol://hostname:port/path-and-file-name
    + protocol — the application-level protocol used by the client and server (like HTTP, FTP, telnet)
    + hostname — the DNS domain name or IP address of the server
    + port — the TCP port number that the server is listening for incoming requests from the clients on. If not specified, takes on a default. 
            — in HTTP, that default is TCP port 80
    + path-and-file-name — the name and location of the requested resource, under the server document base directory
- For example… mailto:user@test101.com  telnet://www.nowhere123.com/  ftp://www.ftp.org/docs/test/txt 
- Whenever you enter a URL in the address box of the browser, the browser translates the URL into a request message according to specified protocol

## HyperText Transfer Protocol
## HTTP Requests:
- This is communication between a computer and a server, a request is sent to get the HTML and then everything else attached to it.
- HTTP Requests are stateless -- they don't remember anything 
- From: client, to: server
- There are hundreds of open APIs — different servers with ways for anyone to interact with them — that we can communicate with.
- They have different labels depending on what they’re used for.
    * GET: Requests a web resource from the server
    * HEAD: Requests the header that a GET would have obtained. Often used to check against the local cache copy, as the header contains the last-modified date of the data.
    * POST: Used to post data up to the server
    * PUT: Asks the server to store the data
    * DELETE: Asks the server to delete the data
    * TRACE: Asks the server to return a disanostic trace of the actions it takes
    * OPTIONS: Asks the server to return the list of request methods it supports 
    * CONNECT: Used to tell a proxy to make a connection to another host and simply reply the content, without attempting to parse or cache it. Often used to make SSL connection through the proxy


## HTTP Responses:
- The first line of the response message contains the response status code, generated by the server to indicate an outcome to the request. 
- Status code is output in a 3-digit-number:
        * 1xx (Informational): Request received, server is continuing the process.
        * 2xx (Success): The request was successfully received, understood, accepted, and serviced.
        * 3xx (Redirection): Further action must be taken in order to complete the request.
        * 4xx (Client Error): The request contains bad syntax or cannot be understood.
        * 5xx (Server Error): The server failed to fulfill an apparently valid request. 
- Some commonly encountered status codes...
    * 100 Continue: The server received the request and in the process of giving the response.
    * 200 OK: The request is fulfilled.
    * 301 Move Permanently: The resource requested for has been permanently moved to a new location. The URL of the new location is given in the response header called Location. The client should issue a new request to the new location. Application should update all references to this new location.
    * 302 Found & Redirect (or Move Temporarily): Same as 301, but the new location is temporarily in nature. The client should issue a new request, but applications need not update the references.
    * 304 Not Modified: In response to the If-Modified-Since conditional GET request, the server notifies that the resource requested has not been modified.
    * 400 Bad Request: Server could not interpret or understand the request, probably syntax error in the request message.
    * 401 Authentication Required: The requested resource is protected, and require client’s credential (username/password). The client should re-submit the request with his credential (username/password).
    * 403 Forbidden: Server refuses to supply the resource, regardless of identity of client.
    * 404 Not Found: The requested resource cannot be found in the server.
    * 405 Method Not Allowed: The request method used, e.g., POST, PUT, DELETE, is a valid method. However, the server does not allow that method for the resource requested.
    * 408 Request Timeout:
    * 414 Request URI too Large:
    * 500 Internal Server Error: Server is confused, often caused by an error in the server-side program responding to the request.
    * 501 Method Not Implemented: The request method used is invalid (could be caused by a typing error, e.g., "GET" misspell as "Get").
    * 502 Bad Gateway: Proxy or Gateway indicates that it receives a bad response from the upstream server.
    * 503 Service Unavailable: Server cannot response due to overloading or maintenance. The client can try again later.
    * 504 Gateway Timeout: Proxy or Gateway indicates that it receives a timeout from an upstream server.

        

source