###### MORE NODE ###### 
### EXPRESS SESSIONS ###

### Todd's Focus Questions:
* Why would we want to use sessions?
* What is a cookie
* Is the session unique to each computer or login?

## Express Sessions — a node package that helps us maintain cookies
- npm install --save express
- cookies: help us retain small bits of data on a user/client computer to be access when they visit our site/server again
- We can pull data accessed by cookies from them using restructuring: req.session.key
- When structuring a session…
        app.use( session( {
        secret: ‘@NyTh1nG y0u w@Nt’
        resave: boolean  <— 
        saveUninitialized: boolean <— have you code an initial state?
        expires: how many milliseconds until website logs user out? }));
- Great for shopping carts, users across multiple requests, and other authentication scenarios 

# Endpoints 
- ... points in our index that listen for user requests and return a response
- In other words, they listen for user requests
- GET / POST / PUT / DELETE: C.R.U.D. functions all over again
- How do we want to handle user requests on our own server?
- When structuring an endpoint…
        endpointFunc( ‘/api/path’, function( req, res, next ) {
            whatdowewanttohappen putthatcodeinhere
        next();}
- This is where we would add filters and other middleware functions
- Endpoints ignore question marks which is why it can handle filter requests 

### Tyler's Class Notes:
## What is middleware?
- Code that sits in the middle of two other pieces of code 
- Is able to monitor and possibly modify communication, in both directions 
- All middleware takes a req, res, next
- Gives us a chance to modify requests

## When do we use app.use() vs inline middleware?
- inline middleware: when we insert middleware as a parameter, when we want it to run for just a single route/endpoint
- app.use(): runs the middleware for every single request to our server, which can be desireable (i.e. body-parser)

## What is the 'next' parameter in a middleware function? What makes it useful, say, compared to if you were expect to use a return statement?
- The next paramter is called only when our middleware is done
- Allows us to do async operations, like looking up data within a db, or making a request to another server

## What's an HTTP session?
- An on-going conversation between client and server